docs: create generator template tutorial (#978)
asyncapi/generator: docs/generator_template.md

        self.client.publish(topic, id)`}
    </File>
  )
}
```

### 4. Write script to run the test code

In **package.json** you can have the scripts property that you invoke by calling `npm run <yout_script>`. Add these scripts to **package.json**:

``` json
    "scripts": {
        "test:clean": "rimraf test/project/client.py",
        "test:generate": "asyncapi generate fromTemplate test/fixtures/asyncapi.yml ./ --output test/project --force-write",
        "test:start": "python test/project/test.py",
        "test": "npm run test:clean && npm run test:generate && npm run test:start"
    }
```

The 4 scripts above do the following:

1. `test:clean`: This script uses the rimraf package to remove the old version of the file **test/project/client.py** everytime you run your test.
2. `test:generate`: This script uses the AsyncAPI CLI to generate a new version of **client.py**
3. `test:start`: This script runs the python code using **client.py**
4. `test`: This script runs `npm test` to check that everything is working as expected.

Run `npm test` on your terminal to ensure everything works as expected.

### 5. Template your code

### Add parameters to the configuration file

> In programming we often have different runtime environments e.g development and production. You will use different servers to spin both of these instances. In your case, you'll probably have two broker versions one for use in production and the other in development. You have defined a dev server in the AsyncAPI document:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We often have different runtime environments in programming, e.g., development and production. You will use different servers to spin both of these instances. You'll probably have two broker versions, one for production and the other for development. You have defined a dev server in the AsyncAPI document:
```

```yml
servers:
  dev:
    url: test.mosquitto.org
    protocol: mqtt
    bindings:
      mqtt:
        clientId: temperature-service
```

This will allow you to also define the broker you will use in production in the servers section above.
Therefore, we can template the code `mqttBroker = 'test.mosquitto.org'` in **index.js** so the value is populated dynamically at runtime depending on the specified server environment.

> Generator has a **parameters** object used to define parameters you use to dynamically to modify your template code at runtime. It also supports the **server** parameter that defines the server configuration value. Navigate to **package.json** and add the snippet below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generator has a **parameters** object used to define parameters you use to dynamically modify your template code at runtime. It also supports the **server** parameter that defines the server configuration value. Navigate to **package.json** and add the snippet below:
```

```json
    "generator": {
        # ...(redacted for brevity)
        "parameters": {
            "server": {
              "description": "The server you want to use in the code.",
              "required": true
            }
        }
    }
```

`"required": true`: makes the parameter mandatory and once user forgets to add it to the cli command, a proper error message is yielded.
You'll pass the server to be used to generate your code using `--param server=dev` in the AsyncAPI CLI command. Failure to which you'll get an error:

```cmd
Generator Error: This template requires the following missing params: server.
```

> Update your `test:generate` script in `package.json` to inlcude the server param `test:generate": "asyncapi generate fromTemplate test/fixtures/asyncapi.yml ./ --output test/project --force-write --param server=dev "`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update your `test:generate` script in `package.json` to include the server param `test:generate": "asyncapi generate fromTemplate test/fixtures/asyncapi.yml ./ --output test/project --force-write --param server=dev "`
```

You can now replace the static broker from `mqttBroker = 'test.mosquitto.org'` to `mqttBroker = "${asyncapi.servers().get(params.server).url()}"` in **index.js**.

> Now the template code looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now the template code looks like this:
```

``` js
import { File } from '@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk';

// notice that now the template not only gets the instance of parsed AsyncAPI document but also the parameters
export default function ({ asyncapi }) {
  console.log(asyncapi, params)
  return (
    <File name="client.py">
      {`import paho.mqtt.client as mqtt

mqttBroker = "${asyncapi.servers().get(params.server).url()}"

class TemperatureServiceClient:
    def __init__(self):
        self.client = mqtt.Client()
        self.client.connect(mqttBroker)

    def sendTemperatureChange(self, id):
        topic = "temperature/changed"
        self.client.publish(topic, id)`}
    </File>
  )
}
```

Run `npm test` to validate that your code still works as expected.

### Templating index.js with React

> Python takes indentation very seriously and out generated output will be python code. We therefpre need to make sure the indentation in index.js looks right so the generated code is indented properly. After templating the code in index.js, it will look like the following code snippet:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Python takes indentation very seriously, and our generated output will be Python code. We, therefore, need to make sure the indentation in index.js looks right so the generated code is indented correctly. After templating the code in index.js, it will look like the following code snippet:
```

    // 3
      <Text newLines={2}>mqttBroker = "{asyncapi.servers().get(params.server).url()}"</Text>
    // 4
      <Text newLines={2}>class {asyncapi.info().title().replaceAll(' ', '')}Client:</Text>
    // 5
      <Text indent={2} newLines={2}>
        {`def __init__(self):
            self.client = mqtt.Client()
            self.client.connect(mqttBroker)`}
      </Text>
  )
}
```

1. Import the **Text** component that will wrap strings so they are indented properly in the output. Your import statement should now look like this: `import { File, Text } from '@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk'`.
2. When the paho module import is rendered in **client.py** file, it will add two extra new lines.
3. The broker url is templated in a Text component removing the `$` from the string template.
4. Dynamically get the class name **TemperatureServiceClient** from the AsyncAPI document from the **info** object using the Parser API using the code: `asyncapi.info().title()` . It will return `Temperature Service`, then remove the spaces and add Client as a suffix.
5. There is no templating needed in the `__init__` function, there is only hardcoded information.

> > If you're on the fence about which templating engine you should use in your template, check out the [react render engine](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator/react-render-engine) and [nunjucks render engine](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator/nunjucks-render-engine) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you're on the fence about which templating engine you should use in your template, check out the [React render engine](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator/react-render-engine) and [nunjucks render engine](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator/nunjucks-render-engine) documentation.
```

  temperature/risen:
    description: Notifies the user when the temperature rises past a certain point.
    publish:
      operationId: temperatureRise
      message:
        description: Message that is being sent when the temperature rises past a certain point.
        payload:
          type: object
          additionalProperties: false
          properties:
            temperatureId:
              type: string
```

And update your test script in test.py to test the two functions as below:

```py
    client.sendTemperatureDrop(randomId)
    print("Temperature drop detected " + str(randomId) + " sent to temperature/dropped")
    client.sendTemperatureRise(randomId)
    print("Temperature rise detected " + str(randomId) + " sent to temperature/risen")
```

Run `npm test` to validate that everything works as expected. You should see logs similar to the snippet below in your terminal:

```cmd
Temperature drop detected 49040460 sent to temperature/dropped
Temperature rise detected 49040460 sent to temperature/risen
Temperature drop detected 66943992 sent to temperature/dropped
Temperature rise detected 66943992 sent to temperature/risen
```

## Conclusion

> In this tutorial, we have created a simple AsyncAPI generator template that uses a Python MQTT client. We have explained how to use an AsyncAPI file, create an python MQTT template and use them to generate code from it and use the Paho-MQTT library in Python to connect to an MQTT broker and publish messages. We hope this tutorial has helped you understand how to create a user-defined template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we have created a simple AsyncAPI generator template that uses a Python MQTT client. We have explained how to use an AsyncAPI file, create a Python MQTT template and use them to generate code from it, and use the Paho-MQTT library in Python to connect to an MQTT broker and publish messages. We hope this tutorial has helped you understand how to create a user-defined template.
```

---
title: "How to create a simple generator template"
weight: 170
---

In this tutorial, you'll learn to create a simple generator template using a Python MQTT client. You'll use the AsyncAPI document and the template you develop to generate Python code. Additionally, you'll create template code with a reusable component to reuse the custom functionality you create and test your code using an MQTT client.

> Suppose you can only sleep when the AC in your bedroom is set to 22 °C, and you can't see when the temperature drops or rises above that. You can install a smart monitor in your bedroom that keeps track of the temperature and notifies you to adjust it to your optimum temperature if it fluctuates. You will create a template that alerts you when the temperature fluctuates from 22 °C.

Reviewer 2: btw, love this idea, I felt like a motivation kick when I read it, to continue reading more. Great story based tutorial writing 💪🏼

Author: Thank you @derberg

In this tutorial:

- You'll use the [Eclipse Mosquito](https://test.mosquitto.org) **MQTT broker**, which you'll connect to subscribe and publish messages using an MQTT client.
- You'll use [Python Paho-MQTT](https://pypi.org/project/paho-mqtt/) as the **MQTT client** in this project.
- Lastly, you will create a React template that will use the MQTT broker to allow you to monitor your bedroom's temperature and notify you when the temperature drops or rises above 22 °C.
- Create a reusable component for the output code's rise/dropped temperature functions.

## Background context

> There is a list of [community maintained templates](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator/template#generator-templates-list), but what if you require customized output from the generator? In that case, you'll create a user-defined template that generates custom output from the generator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There is a list of [community maintained templates](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator/template#generator-templates-list), but what if you do not find what you need? In that case, you'll create a user-defined template that generates custom output from the generator.
```

safer to write there, because in many cases templates can be configured and generate different outputs basing on passes `parameters`

Before you create the template, you'll need to have an [AsyncAPI document](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator/asyncapi-document) that defines the properties you want to use in your template to test against. In this tutorial, you'll use the following template saved in the `test/fixtures/asyncapi.yml` file in your template project directory.

``` yml

asyncapi: 2.6.0

info:
  title: Temperature Service
  version: 1.0.0
  description: This service is in charge of processing all the events related to temperature.

servers:
  dev:
    url: test.mosquitto.org

>     protocol: mqtt
>     bindings:
>       mqtt:
>         clientId: temperature-service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    protocol: mqtt
```

channels:
  temperature/changed:
    description: Updates the bedroom temperature in the database when the temperatures drops or goes up.
    publish:
      operationId: temperatureChange
      message:
        description: Message that is being sent when the temperature in the bedroom changes.
        payload:
          type: object
          additionalProperties: false
          properties:
            temperatureId:
              type: string
components:
  schemas:
    temperatureId:
      type: object
      additionalProperties: false
      properties:
        temperatureId:
          type: string
```

> Note:

Reviewer 2: I think we have this `note` component in the website that you could use here

> - To generate code, use the [AsyncAPI CLI](https://www.asyncapi.com/tools/cli). If you don't have the CLI installed, follow [this guide](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator/installation-guide#asyncapi-cli).

Reviewer 2: since this document is rendered in website, and people should read it in the website, you can do relative website links

```suggestion
- To generate code, use the [AsyncAPI CLI](https://www.asyncapi.com/tools/cli). If you don't have the CLI installed, follow [CLI installation guide](/docs/tools/cli/installation).
```

- better point to CLI docs
- better links if they are descriptive for people with accessibility problems, that use screen readers

> - If you are new to AsyncAPI, check out the following docs: [template development](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator/template-development), which explains the minimum requirements for a template and possible features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you are new to AsyncAPI Generator, check out the following docs: [template development](/docs/tools/generator/template-development), which explains the minimum requirements for a template and possible features.
```

- You can [learn more about asynchronous messaging using MQTT](https://medium.com/python-point/mqtt-basics-with-python-examples-7c758e605d4).

> ## Steps followed to create a template

Reviewer 2: `Steps followed` - not sure about grammatical correctness, what do you mean? like "steps someone should now follow" or you describe like a prerequisite steps? setup steps?

Reviewer 2: btw, I like this idea of a kind of short summary of steps someone has to follow, nice overview

so maybe section name should be `Overview of steps you follow to create a template`?

1. Create a new directory for your template named **python-mqtt-client-template**.
2. Install the AsyncAPI CLI using the command `npm install -g @asyncapi/cli`.

> 3. Create a new folder **test/fixtures** with a file named `asyncapi.yml` in your fixtures directory. This file is used to define the **structure** of your template. 

Reviewer 2: should we maybe refer to backgroud context section? like tell people that `asyncapi.yml` should contain content mentioned there?

4. Create a new file named `package.json` in your template directory. This file is used to define the **dependencies** for your template.
5. Create a new file named `index.js` in your **template** directory. This file is used to define the **logic** for your template.
6. Create a new directory named `partials` in your template directory. This directory is used to store the **partial HTML** files that are used to create the final documentation.

> 7. Create a new directory named `assets` in your template directory. This directory is used to **store the CSS and JavaScript files that are used to style the final documentation or website**.

Reviewer 2: we do not cover that in this tutorial so we should not mention it, to not confuse

Reviewer 2: more imporant is to mention `test/project/test.py` that you need to create a test

Lets break it down:

### `package.json` file

The `package.json` file is used to define the dependencies for your template. Here's an example `package.json` file:

``` json
{
  "name": "python-mqtt-client-template",
  "version": "0.0.1",
  "description": "A template that generates a Python MQTT client using MQTT.",
  "generator": {
    "renderer": "react",
    "apiVersion": "v1",
    "generator": ">=1.10.0 <2.0.0",
    "supportedProtocols": ["mqtt"]
  },

>   "dependencies": {

Reviewer 2: we are missing `devDependency` pointing to `rimraf`

```
    "devDependencies": {
        "rimraf": "^5.0.0"
    }
```

  - **renderer** - can either be `react` or `nunjucks`. In this case the generator will pass your template to the react render engine to generate the output.
  - **apiVersion** - specifies which major version of the [Parser-API](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-api) your template will use.
  - **generator** - a string representing the generator version-range your template is compatible with.
  - **supportedProtocols** - A list that specifies which protocols are supported by your template.
- **dependencies** - specifies which version of [`@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk`](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator-react-sdk) should be used.

Run the command `npm install` on your terminal to install the dependencies specified in `package.json`.

### `index.js` file

The index.js file is used to define the logic for your template. Inside the template folder, create an `index.js` file and add the code snippet below:

```js
//1
import { File } from '@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk'
//2
export default function ({ asyncapi }) {
  //3
  return <File name="client.py">{asyncapi.info().title()}</File>
}
```

The code snippet above does the following:

1. Import the `generator-react-sdk` dependency.

> 2. The `asyncapi` argument is an instance of the [AsyncAPI Parser](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator/parser). It will allow you to access the content of the asyncapi document in your template using helper functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. The `asyncapi` argument is an instance of the [AsyncAPI Parser](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator/parser). It will allow you to access the content of the AsyncAPI document in your template using helper functions.
```

3. The `asyncapi.info().title()` is using the info() helper function to return the info object from the AsyncAPI document illustrated in the code snippet below:

``` json
info:
  title: Temperature Service
  version: 1.0.0
  description: This service is in charge of processing all the events related to temperature.
```

> `asyncapi.info().title()` will return Temperature Service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`asyncapi.info().title()` returns `Temperature Service`.
```

### Test using AsyncAPI CLI

To see this in action, run `asyncapi generate fromTemplate test/fixtures/asyncapi.yml ./ -o test/project` command on your terminal. If successful, you'll see the message below on your terminal:

``` cmd
Generation in progress. Keep calm and wait a bit... done
Check out your shiny new generated files at output.
```

> And navigating to the **project** directory, you should see a **client.py** file; the only content is Temperature Service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And navigating to the **test/project** directory, you should see a **client.py** file; the only content is `Temperature Service`.
```

Let's break down the previous command:

- `asyncapi generate fromTemplate` is how you use AsyncAPI generator via the AsyncAPI CLI.

> - `asyncapi.yaml` points to your AsyncAPI document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `test/fixtures/asyncapi.yml` points to your AsyncAPI document.
```

- `./` specifies the location of your template.
- `-o` determines where to output the result.

## Creating a template

> We will create an MQTT-supported template that will generate a Python client from the template and the AsyncAPI document above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will create an MQTT-supported template that will generate a Python client from the template and the AsyncAPI document above.
```

Reviewer 2: best docs are when they are directed to reader. With blog posts it is different, but with docs it should be about the reader. Make sure you use it everywhere in the document

In this section, you'll:

> 1. Write the MQTT client code.
> 2. Write code to test the client works
> 3. Update the template to use the client code.
> 4. Setup a script to help you run this code
> 5. Template your code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Write the MQTT client code.
2. Write code to test the client works.
3. Update the template to use the client code.
4. Setup a script to help you run this code.
5. Template your code.
```

## 1. Create the client

The following code is an example of a Python client using the paho-MQTT library:

``` python
# 1
import paho.mqtt.client as mqtt
# 2
mqttBroker = "test.mosquitto.org"

class TemperatureServiceClient:
    def __init__(self):
      # 3 
        self.client = mqtt.Client()
      # 4
        self.client.connect(mqttBroker)

    def sendTemperatureChange(self, id):
      # 5
        topic = "temperature/changed"
        # 6 
        self.client.publish(topic, id)
```

Make sure you have the paho-mqtt library installed. You can install it using pip with the `pip install paho-mqtt` command.
Let's break down the previous code snippet:

1. Imports the MQTT module from the paho package, which provides the MQTT client functionality.
2. Assigns the MQTT broker address `test.mosquitto.org` to the variable MQTT broker. This specifies the location where the MQTT client will connect to.

> 3. Creates an instance of the MQTT client object. This object will be used to establish a connection with the MQTT broker and perform MQTT operations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Defines an instance of the MQTT client object. This object will be used to establish a connection with the MQTT broker and perform MQTT operations.
```

> 4. Establishes a connection to the MQTT broker. This command connects the MQTT client to the broker.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Defines that on client instance creation, it connects to the broker.
```

lets focus on code and not how someone will use it

> 5. The MQTT topic to which the client will publish messages.
> 6. This command publishes the temperature change information to the MQTT broker.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. The `sendTemperatureChange` is a function that client user invokes to publish a message to the broker, and its specific topic.
```

In summary, this code sets up an MQTT client using the paho-MQTT library. It connects to the `test.mosquitto.org` MQTT broker, and the `sendTemperatureChange()` method publishes temperature change information to the `temperature/changed` topic whenever called.

> ### 2.Test the client

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 2. Test the client
```

You'll interact with the Temperature Service using the client module you created above. You'll create an instance of the client using `client = TemperatureServiceClient()` and then use `client.sendTemperatureChange` function to publish messages that Temperature Service is subscribed to.
Create a **test/project/test.py** file in your project and add the code snippet below:

``` python
from client import TemperatureServiceClient
from random import randrange
import time

client = TemperatureServiceClient()

id_length = 8
min_value = 10**(id_length-1)  # Minimum value with 8 digits (e.g., 10000000)
max_value = 10**id_length - 1  # Maximum value with 8 digits (e.g., 99999999)

while True:
    randomId = randrange(min_value, max_value + 1)
    client.sendTemperatureChange(randomId)
    print("New temperature detected " + str(randomId) + " sent to temperature/changed")
    time.sleep(1)

```

> Run the code above on your terminal using the command `python test.py`. You'll should see output similar to the snippet below logged on your terminal:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run the code above in your terminal using the command `python test.py`. You should see output similar to the snippet below logged on your terminal:
```

``` cmd
New temperature detected 64250266 sent to temperature/changed
New temperature detected 36947728 sent to temperature/changed
New temperature detected 72955029 sent to temperature/changed
```

> To make sure your client works, also test it using an [MQTT CLI](https://hivemq.github.io/mqtt-cli/) using docker. Run the command `docker run hivemq/mqtt-cli sub -t temperature/changed -h test.mosquitto.org` on your teminal. It will download the image if you don't have it locally then the CLI will conncet to the broker, subscribe to the `temperature/changed` topic and then output the temperature ids on the terminal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To make sure your `test.py` and client code works check if the broker really receives temperature-related messages. You can do it using an [MQTT CLI](https://hivemq.github.io/mqtt-cli/) using docker. Run the command `docker run hivemq/mqtt-cli sub -t temperature/changed -h test.mosquitto.org` in your terminal. It will download the image if you don't have it locally, then the CLI will connect to the broker, subscribe to the `temperature/changed` topic and then output the temperature ids on the terminal.
```

also please like in case of test.py terminal output, also show MQTT CLI client output

> ### 3.Update the template with client code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 3. Update the template with client code
```

> Open **index.js** and copy the content of **client.py** and replace `{asyncapi.info().title()}` with it. It should look like the code snippet below now:

Reviewer 2: > copy the content of **client.py**

sorry? copy from where, it is not mentioned earlier in the document

Reviewer 2: you are referring to `Create the client` and the code below sentence `The following code is an example of a Python client using the paho-MQTT library` right? but there is nothing about `client.py`

Author: You're right. Thanks I'll update this

``` js
import { File } from '@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk';

export default function ({ asyncapi }) {
  return (
    <File name="client.py">
      {`import paho.mqtt.client as mqtt

mqttBroker = "test.mosquitto.org"

class TemperatureServiceClient:
    def __init__(self):
        self.client = mqtt.Client()
        self.client.connect(mqttBroker)

    def sendTemperatureChange(self, id):
        topic = "temperature/changed"
        self.client.publish(topic, id)`}
    </File>
  )
}
```

### 4. Write script to run the test code

In **package.json** you can have the scripts property that you invoke by calling `npm run <yout_script>`. Add these scripts to **package.json**:

``` json
    "scripts": {
        "test:clean": "rimraf test/project/client.py",
        "test:generate": "asyncapi generate fromTemplate test/fixtures/asyncapi.yml ./ --output test/project --force-write",
        "test:start": "python test/project/test.py",
        "test": "npm run test:clean && npm run test:generate && npm run test:start"
    }
```

The 4 scripts above do the following:

> 1. `test:clean`: This script uses the rimraf package to remove the old version of the file **test/project/client.py** everytime you run your test.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. `test:clean`: This script uses the `rimraf` package to remove the old version of the file **test/project/client.py** every time you run your test.
```

> 2. `test:generate`: This script uses the AsyncAPI CLI to generate a new version of **client.py**
> 3. `test:start`: This script runs the python code using **client.py**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. `test:generate`: This script uses the AsyncAPI CLI to generate a new version of **client.py**.
3. `test:start`: This script runs the python code using **client.py**.
```

> 4. `test`: This script runs `npm test` to check that everything is working as expected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. `test`: This script runs all the other scripts in proper order.
```

Run `npm test` on your terminal to ensure everything works as expected.

### 5. Template your code

### Add parameters to the configuration file

> We often have different runtime environments in programming, e.g., development and production. You will use different servers to spin both of these instances. You'll probably have two broker versions, one for production and the other for development. You have defined a dev server in the AsyncAPI document:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You often have different runtime environments in programming, e.g., development and production. You will use different servers to spin both of these instances. You'll probably have two broker versions, one for production and the other for development. You have defined a dev server in the AsyncAPI document:
```

```yml
servers:
  dev:
    url: test.mosquitto.org

>     protocol: mqtt
>     bindings:
>       mqtt:
>         clientId: temperature-service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    protocol: mqtt
```

```

This will allow you to also define the broker you will use in production in the servers section above.
Therefore, we can template the code `mqttBroker = 'test.mosquitto.org'` in **index.js** so the value is populated dynamically at runtime depending on the specified server environment.

The generator has a **parameters** object used to define parameters you use to dynamically modify your template code at runtime. It also supports the **server** parameter that defines the server configuration value. Navigate to **package.json** and add the snippet below:

```json
    "generator": {
        # ...(redacted for brevity)
        "parameters": {
            "server": {
              "description": "The server you want to use in the code.",
              "required": true
            }
        }
    }
```

`"required": true`: makes the parameter mandatory and once user forgets to add it to the cli command, a proper error message is yielded.
You'll pass the server to be used to generate your code using `--param server=dev` in the AsyncAPI CLI command. Failure to which you'll get an error:

```cmd
Generator Error: This template requires the following missing params: server.
```

> Update your `test:generate` script in `package.json` to include the server param `test:generate": "asyncapi generate fromTemplate test/fixtures/asyncapi.yml ./ --output test/project --force-write --param server=dev "`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Update your `test:generate` script in `package.json` to include the server param `test:generate": "asyncapi generate fromTemplate test/fixtures/asyncapi.yml ./ --output test/project --force-write --param server=dev"`
```

### Templating index.js with React

Python takes indentation very seriously, and our generated output will be Python code. We, therefore, need to make sure the indentation in index.js looks right so the generated code is indented correctly. After templating the code in index.js, it will look like the following code snippet:

```js
// 1
import { File, Text } from '@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk'
export default function ({ asyncapi, params }) {
  return (
    <File name="client.py">
    // 2
      <Text newLines={2}>import paho.mqtt.client as mqtt</Text>
    // 3
      <Text newLines={2}>mqttBroker = "{asyncapi.servers().get(params.server).url()}"</Text>
    // 4
      <Text newLines={2}>class {asyncapi.info().title().replaceAll(' ', '')}Client:</Text>
    // 5
      <Text indent={2} newLines={2}>
        {`def __init__(self):
            self.client = mqtt.Client()
            self.client.connect(mqttBroker)`}
      </Text>
      </File>
  )
}
```

1. Import the **Text** component that will wrap strings so they are indented properly in the output. Your import statement should now look like this: `import { File, Text } from '@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk'`.

> 2. When the paho module import is rendered in **client.py** file, it will add two extra new lines.

Reviewer 2: please doublecheck with paho docs, how they spell it in docs, if lower case, I'm not sure but probably `Paho` or `PAHO`. But probably best is `Paho` always

> 3. The broker url is templated in a Text component removing the `$` from the string template.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. The broker url is templated in a `Text` component removing the `$` from the string template.
```

> 4. Dynamically get the class name **TemperatureServiceClient** from the AsyncAPI document from the **info** object using the Parser API using the code: `asyncapi.info().title()` . It will return `Temperature Service`, then remove the spaces and add Client as a suffix.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Dynamically get the class name **TemperatureServiceClient** from the AsyncAPI document from the **info** object using the Parser API using the code: `asyncapi.info().title()` . It will return `Temperature Service`, then remove the spaces and add `Client` as a suffix.
```

5. There is no templating needed in the `__init__` function, there is only hardcoded information.

> If you're on the fence about which templating engine you should use in your template, check out the [React render engine](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator/react-render-engine) and [nunjucks render engine](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator/nunjucks-render-engine) documentation.
In the next section, you'll refactor your template to use React.

### Creating a reusable component

If you had two [channels](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/concepts/channel), one to watch if the temperature drop below 22 °C and one to check if the temperature is above 22 °C, the generated output code would look like this:

```python
import paho.mqtt.client as mqtt

mqttBroker = "test.mosquitto.org"

class TemperatureServiceClient:

  def __init__(self):
              self.client = mqtt.Client()
              self.client.connect(mqttBroker)

  def sendTemperatureDrop(self, id):

>           topic = "temperature/droped"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          topic = "temperature/dropped"
```

          self.client.publish(topic, id)
  def sendTemperatureRise(self, id):
          topic = "temperature/risen"
          self.client.publish(topic, id)

```

> You'll then need to template to dynamically generate `sendTemperatureDropped` and `sendTemperatureRisen` functions in the generated code based off the AsyncAPI document content. The goal is to write template code that returns functions for channels that the Temperature Service application is subscribed to. The template code to generate these functions will look like this:

Reviewer 2: names of functions do not match the code

Author: Nice catch

```js
<Text newLines={2}>

>   <TopicVariable channels={asyncapi.channels().filterByReceive()} />

Reviewer 2: should be `TopicFunction` I think, not `TopicVariable`

 * As input it requires a list of Channel models from the parsed AsyncAPI document
 */
export function TopicFunction({ channels }) {
  const topicsDetails = getTopics(channels)
  let functions = ''

  topicsDetails.forEach((t) => {
    functions += `def send${t.name}(self, id):
        topic = "${t.topic}"
        self.client.publish(topic, id)\n`
  })

  return functions
}

/*
 * This function returns a list of objects, one for each channel with two properties, name and topic
 * name - holds information about the operationId provided in the AsyncAPI document
 * topic - holds information about the address of the topic
 *
 * As input it requires a list of Channel models from the parsed AsyncAPI document
 */
function getTopics(channels) {
  const channelsCanSendTo = channels
  let topicsDetails = []

  channelsCanSendTo.forEach((ch) => {
    const topic = {}
    const operationId = ch.operations().filterByReceive()[0].id()
    topic.name = operationId.charAt(0).toUpperCase() + operationId.slice(1)
    topic.topic = ch.address()

    topicsDetails.push(topic)
  })

  return topicsDetails
}
```

> `{ channels }`:the TopicFunction component accepts a custom prop called channels and in your template code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`{ channels }`: the `TopicFunction` component accepts a custom prop called channels and in your template code
```

> `getTopics(channels)`: Returns a list of objects, one for each channel with two properties; name and topic. The **name** holds information about the operationId provided in the AsyncAPI document while the **topic** holds information about the address of the topic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`getTopics(channels)`: Returns a list of objects, one for each channel with two properties; name and topic. The **name** holds information about the `operationId` provided in the AsyncAPI document while the **topic** holds information about the address of the topic.
```

> Import the `TopicFunction` component in your template code in **index.js** and add the template code to generate the functions to topics that the Temperature Service application is subscribed to. In your case, .The final version of your template code should look like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Import the `TopicFunction` component in your template code in **index.js** and add the template code to generate the functions to topics that the `Temperature Service` application is subscribed to. In your case, the final version of your template code should look like this:
```

---

> title: "Creating a generator template"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "Creating a Generator template"
```

> title: "How to create a simple generator template"

Author: ```suggestion
title: "Creating a generator template"
```

weight: 170
---

> In this tutorial, you'll learn to create a simple generator template using a Python MQTT client. You'll use the AsyncAPI document and the template you develop to generate Python code. Additionally, you'll create template code with a reusable component to reuse the custom functionality you create and test your code using an MQTT client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial teaches you how to create a simple generator template using a Python MQTT client. You'll use the AsyncAPI document and the template you develop to generate Python code. Additionally, you'll create template code with a reusable component to reuse the custom functionality you create and test your code using an MQTT client.
```

> Suppose you can only sleep when the AC in your bedroom is set to 22 °C, and you can't sleep when the temperature drops or rises above that. You can install a smart monitor in your bedroom that keeps track of the temperature and notifies you to adjust it to your optimum temperature when it fluctuates. You will create a template to alerts you when the bedroom's temperature fluctuates from 22 °C.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose you can only sleep when the AC in your bedroom is set to 22 °C, and you can't sleep when the temperature drops or rises above that. You can install a smart monitor in your bedroom that keeps track of the temperature and notifies you to adjust it to your optimum temperature when it fluctuates. You will create a template to alert you when the bedroom's temperature fluctuates from 22 °C.
```

servers:
  dev:
    url: test.mosquitto.org
    protocol: mqtt

channels:
  temperature/changed:
    description: Updates the bedroom temperature in the database when the temperatures drops or goes up.
    publish:
      operationId: temperatureChange
      message:
        description: Message that is being sent when the temperature in the bedroom changes.
        payload:
          type: object
          additionalProperties: false
          properties:
            temperatureId:
              type: string
components:
  schemas:
    temperatureId:
      type: object
      additionalProperties: false
      properties:
        temperatureId:
          type: string
```

<Remember>

- To generate code, use the [AsyncAPI CLI](https://www.asyncapi.com/tools/cli). If you don't have the CLI installed, follow [CLI installation guide](/docs/tools/generator/installation-guide#asyncapi-cli).
- If you are new to AsyncAPI Generator, check out the following docs: [template development](/docs/tools/generator/template-development), which explains the minimum requirements for a template and possible features.

</Remember>

> ## Overview of steps to follow to create a template

Reviewer 2: regarding screenshot of outline, his section looks super long there

```suggestion
## Overview of steps
```

- `test/fixtures/asyncapi.yml` points to your AsyncAPI document.
- `./` specifies the location of your template.
- `-o` specifies where to output the result.

## Creating a template

You will create an MQTT-supported template that will generate a Python client from the template and the AsyncAPI document above.

In this section, you'll:

1. Write the MQTT client code.
2. Write code to test the client works.
3. Update the template to use the client code.
4. Setup a script to help you run this code.
5. Template your code.

### 1. Create the client

The following is the sample code of the Python client you generated [above](#test-using-asyncapi-cli) using the Paho-MQTT library after running the `asyncapi generate fromTemplate test/fixtures/asyncapi.yml ./ -o test/project` command.

``` python
# 1
import paho.mqtt.client as mqtt
# 2
mqttBroker = "test.mosquitto.org"

class TemperatureServiceClient:
    def __init__(self):
      # 3 
        self.client = mqtt.Client()
      # 4
        self.client.connect(mqttBroker)

    def sendTemperatureChange(self, id):
      # 5
        topic = "temperature/changed"
      # 6 
        self.client.publish(topic, id)
```

> Make sure you have the Paho-mqtt library installed. You can install it using pip with the `pip install paho-mqtt` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you have the Paho-MQTT library installed. You can install it using pip with the `pip install paho-mqtt` command.
```

  temperature/risen:
    description: Notifies the user when the temperature rises past a certain point.
    publish:
      operationId: temperatureRise
      message:
        description: Message that is being sent when the temperature rises past a certain point.
        payload:
          type: object
          additionalProperties: false
          properties:
            temperatureId:
              type: string
```

And update your test script in test.py to test the two functions as below:

```py
    client.sendTemperatureDrop(randomId)
    print("Temperature drop detected " + str(randomId) + " sent to temperature/dropped")
    client.sendTemperatureRise(randomId)
    print("Temperature rise detected " + str(randomId) + " sent to temperature/risen")
```

Run `npm test` to validate that everything works as expected. You should see logs similar to the snippet below in your terminal:

```cmd
Temperature drop detected 49040460 sent to temperature/dropped
Temperature rise detected 49040460 sent to temperature/risen
Temperature drop detected 66943992 sent to temperature/dropped
Temperature rise detected 66943992 sent to temperature/risen
```

## Where to go from here?

> Great job completing this tutorial! You have learnt how to use an AsyncAPI file to create a Python MQTT template and used it with the Paho-MQTT library in Python to connect to an MQTT broker and publish messages.:]

Reviewer 2: > :]

is this one intended? you can use real emoji if you want

> If you want to tinker with a completed template and see what it would look like in production, check out the [Paho-MQTT template](https://github.com/derberg/python-mqtt-client-template) developed by [Lukasz](https://github.com/derberg). You can also check out the accompanying [tutorial to create MQTT client code](https://derberg-github-io-git-articlecodegenpython-derberg.vercel.app/blog/asyncapi-codegen-python).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to tinker with a completed template and see what it would look like in production, check out the [Paho-MQTT template](https://github.com/derberg/python-mqtt-client-template/tree/v1.0.0). You can also check out the accompanying [article about creating MQTT client code](https://www.brainfart.dev/blog/asyncapi-codegen-python).
```
